# Blade Rules
[color=#aaaaaa]▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀▀[/color]
[head=1]Blade[/head]
Based off of The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel
[color=#aaaaaa]▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬▬[/color]
Blade is played one-on-one with a single Blade deck consisting of Blade cards numbered from 1 to 7, Bolt cards, Mirror cards, Blast cards and Force cards. The goal is to have a total card value higher than your opponent by the end of the game. One game uses only ten cards players draw from their respective deck.

The parts of the board are as follows.
Decks: Two for both players. The players play from here only when the field is clear.
Hands: One for each player. This is not visible to the other player during play. Each player draws ten (7 numbered, 3 effect) to their hand at the start of the game and plays all "attacks" from here.
Field: Each player has a pile of face-up cards they add to with each play. All cards are cleared from the field after a play when both current totals are the same.
Discard: Used cards not placed on the Field are put in this pile. Effect and Reversed cards are typically placed here.

To create a deck, split the number cards and face cards. Remove the numbers 8-10 from the number deck and the aces, then store. This is the shared deck.

To play, each player draws ten (7 numbered, 3 effect) cards into their hand, hidden from their opponent. The first move is called "dicking", where each player draws a card from their deck and plays it on the field as a face-off to start each of their piles. The number of the card is added to each player's current total in play. Cards that don't have numbers always have the value of "1" in a "dick".
Play always goes to the player with the lower current total. The goal is to have a greater current total than the opponent. The player plays an "attack" from their hand to this goal.
If their total is now higher than their opponent's total, the opponent must then play an "attack".
If their total is now equal to their opponent's total, the field is cleared of cards (and totals) and both players must "dick" again from their deck. If the decks are empty, they may choose from their hand. The game is a draw if there are no cards to choose from at this point.
If either player's hand becomes empty on their turn, either player plays a card that raises their total to a value less than their opponent's total, or if either player can only play effect cards, the game ends and the player with the higher current total wins.

1-7 act as numbered cards, they add values to your total card value. The only exception is 1, which may be played as a Rod card. Rod cards "un-bolt" cards, reinstating their value.
Kings are your Bolt cards. Used to reverse (remove) the opponent's last played card, setting its value to 0. The opponent may then unreverse the card with a Rod card or replace the reversed card with another.
Queens are your Mirror cards. It swaps each player's field.
Jokers are your Blast cards. Forces your opponent to shuffle and hide their hand, allowing you to pick a random card to remove from their hand. The removed card is revealed, then discarded. Does not end your turn.
Jacks are your Force cards. It doubles the total of the card values beneath it in the pile.
